<title>C-API: Options</title>

<div id=wikitoc>
<ul>
<li>[./index.wiki|Index]</li>
<li>[./reference.wiki|Reference]</li>
</ul>
<hr style="border-style:solid">
<ul>
<li>[#overview|Overview]</li>
<li>[#example|Example Usage]</li>
<li>[#fields|Field Specification]</li>
<ul>
<li>[#opttypes|Option Types]</li>
<li>[#flags|Flags]</li>
<li>[#custtype|Custom Types]</li>
<li>[#specfields|OptionSpec Fields]</li>
</ul>
<li>[#parseflags|Parse Flags]</li>
<li>[#compvalid|Compile-time Validation]</li>
<li>[#isspec|Is Specified]</li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2 id=overview>Overview</h2>
A Jsi_OptionSpec array provides details of fields in a <b>struct</b>. This information is used for
translating values to/from and from C struct fields, both for Javascript and
by the [c-sqlite.wiki|Sqlite C-API].

A Jsi_OptionSpec array specifies for a struct field the
name, type, offset, help string, etc.  This specification is passed, along with a pointer
to the actual data,
to <i>Jsi_OptionProcess()</i> and <i>Jsi_OptionConf()</i>.

<h2 id=example>Example Usage</h2>

The following example is a subset of the Jsi Sqlite command:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
enum { MUTEX_DEFAULT, MUTEX_NONE, MUTEX_FULL };
static const char *mtxStrs[] = { "default", "none", "full", 0 };

static <b>Jsi_OptionSpec</b> Options[] =
{
    <b>JSI_OPT</b>(<b>INT</b>,    SqliteDb, debug,    .help="Set debugging level"),
    <b>JSI_OPT</b>(<b>CUSTOM</b>, SqliteDb, execOpts, .help="Default options for exec", .custom=&<b>Jsi_OptSwitchSuboption</b>, .data=ExecFmtOptions),

    <b>JSI_OPT</b>(<b>INT</b>,    SqliteDb, maxStmts, .help="Max cache size for compiled statements"),
    <b>JSI_OPT</b>(<b>BOOL</b>,   SqliteDb, readonly, .help="Database is readonly", .flags=<b>JSI_OPT_INIT_ONLY</b> ),
    <b>JSI_OPT</b>(<b>VALUE</b>,  SqliteDb, vfs,      .help="VFS to use", .flags=<b>JSI_OPT_INIT_ONLY</b>),
    <b>JSI_OPT</b>(<b>CUSTOM</b>, SqliteDb, mutex,    .help="Mutex type to use", .custom=&<b>Jsi_OptSwitchEnum</b>, .data=mtxStrs),
    <b>JSI_OPT_END</b>(SqliteDb)
};

  //...
if (<b>Jsi_OptionsProcess</b>(interp, Options, optObj, &opts, 0) < 0) {
     return <b>JSI_ERROR</b>;
}
if (opts.debug)
    <b>puts</b>("Sqlite created");
</pre></nowiki>

<h2 id=fields>Field Specification</h2>
Options are specified using the JSI_OPT() macro. The first 3 arguments are TYPE,STRUCT,NAME,
where the NAME is a field name in STRUCT.  Additional attributes can be specified using ".name=value" form.

<h3 id=opttypes>Option Types</h3>

The option TYPE is one of:

    <p><nowiki>
<table border='1' class='cmdstbl' ><tr ><th  >Name</th><th>C-Type</th><th  >Description</th></tr>
<tr ><td >BOOL</td><td >bool</td><td >Boolean (stored in a "char" variable).</td></tr>
<tr ><td >INT</td><td >int</td><td >An integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >UINT</td><td >uint</td><td >An unsigned integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >LONG</td><td >long</td><td >An long integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >ULONG</td><td >ulong</td><td >An long unsigned integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >SHORT</td><td >short</td><td >An short integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >USHORT</td><td >ushort</td><td >An short unsigned integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >INT8</td><td >int8_t</td><td >An 8-bit integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >INT16</td><td >int16_t</td><td >A 16-bit integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >INT32</td><td >int32_t</td><td >A 32-bit integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >INT64</td><td >int64_t</td><td >A 64-bit integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >UINT8</td><td >uint8_t</td><td >An unsigned 8-bit integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >UINT16</td><td >uint16_t</td><td >An unsigned 16-bit integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >UINT32</td><td >uint32_t</td><td >An unsigned 32-bit integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >UINT64</td><td >uint64_t</td><td >An unsigned 64-bit integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >SIZE_T</td><td >size_t</td><td >An size_t integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >INTPTR_T</td><td >intptr_t</td><td >An pointer sized integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >UINTPTR_T</td><td >uintptr_t</td><td >An pointer sized unsigned integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >FLOAT</td><td >floag</td><td >A floating point.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >DOUBLE</td><td >double</td><td >Double floating point.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >LDOUBLE</td><td >ldouble</td><td >Long double floating point.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >DSTRING</td><td >Jsi_DString</td><td >A Jsi_DString value.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >STRKEY</td><td >const char*</td><td >A char* string key.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >STRBUF</td><td >char[]</td><td >A fixed size char string buffer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >VALUE</td><td >Jsi_Value*</td><td >A Jsi_Value.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >STRING</td><td >Jsi_Value*</td><td >A Jsi_Value referring to a string.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >VAR</td><td >Jsi_Value*</td><td >A Jsi_Value referring to a variable.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >OBJ</td><td >Jsi_Value*</td><td >A Jsi_Value referring to an object.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >ARRAY</td><td >Jsi_Value*</td><td >A Jsi_Value referring to an array.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >FUNC</td><td >Jsi_Value*</td><td >A Jsi_Value referring to a function.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >TIME_T</td><td >time_t</td><td >A date variable, milliseconds since 1970 stored in a time_t/long.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >TIME_D</td><td >double</td><td >A date variable, milliseconds since 1970 stored in a Jsi_Number/double.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >TIME_W</td><td >int64_t</td><td >A date variable, milliseconds since 1970 stored in a Jsi_Wide/64 bit integer.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >CUSTOM</td><td >void*</td><td >Custom parsed value.</td></tr>
</table></nowiki>

<h3 id=flags>Flags</h3>

The following flags are predefined for individual items in an OptionSpec:

    <p><nowiki>
<table border='1' class='cmdstbl' ><tr ><th  >Name</th><th  >Description</th></tr>
<tr ><td>JSI_OPT_INIT_ONLY</td><td >Allow set only at init, disallow update/conf</td></tr>
<tr ><td>JSI_OPT_NO_DUPVALUE</td><td  align='right'>Values/Strings are not to be duped (dangerous)</td></tr>
<tr ><td>JSI_OPT_READ_ONLY</td><td >Value can never be set.</td></tr>
<tr ><td>JSI_OPT_DIRTY_FIELD</td><td >Used for DB update.</td></tr>
<tr ><td>JSI_OPT_IS_SPECIFIED</td><td >User set the option.</td></tr>
<tr ><td>JSI_OPT_DB_IGNORE</td><td >Field is not to be used for DB.</td></tr>
<tr ><td>JSI_OPT_CUST_NOCASE</td><td >Ignore case (eg. for ENUM and BITSET)</td></tr>
<tr ><td>JSI_OPT_CUST_FLAG2</td><td >Reserved for custom flags</td></tr>
<tr ><td>JSI_OPT_CUST_FLAG2</td><td >Reserved for custom flags</td></tr>
<tr ><td>JSI_OPT_CUST_FLAG2</td><td >Reserved for custom flags</td></tr>
</table></nowiki>

<h3 id=custtype>Custom Types</h3>

Custom types provide parsing/formatting functions to interpret javascript data to/from a C struct-field.
Again, the best example is the Jsi source itself.

The following predefined custom types come builtin:

    <table border='1' class='cmdstbl' ><tr ><th  >Name</th><th  >Description</th><th >.data</th></tr>
<tr ><td >Jsi_OptSwitchEnum</td><td >Enum match</td><td>stringlist</td></tr>
<tr ><td >Jsi_OptSwitchBitset</td><td >Set of zero or more enum match</td><td>stringlist</td></tr>
<tr ><td >Jsi_OptSwitchValueVerify</td><td >Provide callback to verify Jsi_Value* is correct</td><td>&lt;Callback&gt;</td></tr>
<tr ><td >Jsi_OptSwitchSuboption</td><td >Recursive sub-option support</td><td>&lt;sub-Option&gt;</td></tr>
</table>

Refer to the Jsi source for example usage and declarations.

<h3 id=specfields>OptionSpec Fields</h3>

The following fields are defined in Jsi_OptionSpec:
     
    <p><nowiki>
<table border='1' class='cmdstbl' ><tr ><th  >Field</th><th  >Type</th><th  >Description</th></tr>
<tr ><td >type</td><td >enum</td><td >Field type (from above)</td></tr>
<tr ><td >name</td><td >char*</td><td >Name of field</td></tr>
<tr ><td >offset</td><td >int</td><td >Offset in array</td></tr>
<tr ><td >size</td><td >const char*</td><td >Sizeof of field.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >iniVal</td><td >union</td><td >Used for compile-time validation</td></tr>
<tr ><td >flags</td><td >int</td><td >Flags (from above)</td></tr>
<tr ><td >custom</td><td >Jsi_OptionCustom*</td><td >Custom parsing struct</td></tr>
<tr ><td >data</td><td >void*</td><td >User data for custom options.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >help</td><td >char*</td><td >Short 1 line help string.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >info</td><td >char*</td><td >Longer command description: re-define JSI_DETAIL macro to compile-out.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >init</td><td >const char*</td><td >Initial string value (used by info.cmds).</td></tr>
<tr ><td >extName</td><td >const char*</td><td >External name: used by the DB interface.</td></tr>
</table></nowiki>

The first five fields are implicitly set by the <b>JSI_OPT()</b> macro. 
The <b>JSI_END()</b> macro also sets <b>extName</b>.

All others are available for setting by the user with <b>.FIELD=VALUE</b> notation.


<h2 id=parseflags>Parse Flags</h2>

The following flags are available for use with Jsi_OptionProcess/Jsi_OptionConf:

    <p><nowiki>
<table border='1' class='cmdstbl' ><tr ><th  >Name</th><th  >Description</th></tr>
<tr ><td >JSI_OPTS_IS_UPDATE</td><td >This is an update/conf (do not reset the specified flags)</td></tr>
<tr ><td >JSI_OPTS_IGNORE_EXTRA</td><td >Ignore extra members not found in spec</td></tr>
<tr ><td >JSI_OPTS_FORCE_STRICT</td><td >Complain about unknown options, even when noStrict is used.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >JSI_OPTS_PREFIX</td><td >Allow matching unique prefix of object members.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >JSI_OPTS_VERBOSE</td><td >Dump verbose options</td></tr>
</table></nowiki>


<h2 id=compvalid>Compile-time Validation</h2>

Compile-time validation checks option values to ensure that stated type and the field
type actually match.  If they don't, the program will likely crash at runtime.
The implementation uses an implicit assignment to <b>iniVal</b> which should
generate a compiler warning if there is a type mismatch.

Here is an example:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>typedef struct</b> {
    int val;
    //...
} MyData;

<b>Jsi_OptionSpec</b> opts[] = {
    <b>JSI_OPT(STRING</b>, MyData, val),
    <b>JSI_OPT_END</b>(    MyData)
};
</pre></nowiki>

which should generate:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim_out>
test.c:7:6: warning: initialization from incompatible pointer type [enabled by default]
test.c:7:6: warning: (near initialization for ‘opts[0].iniVal.ini_STRING’) [enabled by default]
</pre></nowiki>

<h2 id=isspec>Is Specified</h2>

When a user provides a value for an option, the flag JSI_OPT_IS_SPECIFIED is set in the option flags.
Call <i>Jsi_OptionChanged</i> to determine if an option was specified.
<i>(Note: there are known concurrency issues with this feature).</i>


Note: The Jsi header file [../jsi.h#Jsi_OptionSpec|jsi.h] and source are
best consulted for complete examples.
