<title>Interp</title>
<div id=wikitoc>
<ul>
<li>[./index.wiki|Index]</li>
<li>[./reference.wiki|Reference]</li>
</ul>
<hr style="border-style:solid">
<ul>
<li>[#interp|Interps]</li>
<ul>
<li>[#subinterp|Sub-interps]</li>
<li>[#safe|Safe-Interps]</li>
<li>[#threads|Thread-Interps]</li>
<li>[#alias|Aliases]</li>
<li>[#options|Options]</li>
<li>[#events|Events]</li>
<li>[#evalcall|Call]</li>
<li>[#evalsend|Send]</li>
<li>[#interpdata|Interps and Data]</li>
<li>[#envvars|Environment]</li>
<li>[#compat|Backward Compatibility]</li>
</ul>
<li>[#refs|References]</li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2 id=interp>Interps</h2>
An <b>interp</b> encapsulates the run-time state of a javascript interpreter.

We can dynamically configure and/or query
interp [./reference.wiki#new InterpOptions|options] as follows:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>Interp.conf()</b>;
</pre></nowiki>

which outputs something like:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim_out>
{ args:[  ], callTrace:0, compat:false, ... }
</pre></nowiki>

In Jsi there are 3 ways to change an interps options:

  *  Programmatically within a script:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
Interp.conf({<b>typeCheck</b>:[<i>"error"</i>]});
</pre></nowiki>

  *  From the command-line using <b>-I</b>:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
jsish <b>-ItypeCheck error</b> foo.s
</pre></nowiki>

  *  Environment variables:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>JSI_INTERP_OPTS</b>=<i>'{typeCheck:["<b>parse</b>"]}'</i> jsish foo.js
</pre></nowiki>

<hr>

<h3 id=subinterp>Sub-interps</h3>

A sub-interp provides a separate environment in which to run scripts, eg.

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
var interp1 = <b>new Interp()</b>;
interp1.source(<i>'myfile.jsi'</i>);
interp1.eval(<i>'myfunc();'</i>);
<b>delete</b> interp1;
</pre></nowiki>

When we use <b>eval</b> to execute code in an interp,
execution is normally in the foreground.

To use asynchronous execution we set the second argument to <i>true</i>.

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>var</b> i = <b>new Interp</b>();
i.<b>eval</b>(<i>"doWork();"</i>, true);
//...
<b>update</b>(100);
</pre></nowiki>

See the [./reference.wiki#Interp|Interp Reference] for interface details about creating and using <b>sub-interps</b>.

<hr>

<h3 id=safe>Safe-Interps</h3>

Sub-interps may be created with the <b>isSafe</b> option
for restricting access to the file system:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>var</b> interp1 = <b>new Interp</b>({isSafe:true});
File.write(<i>'/tmp/stuff.txt'</i>, <i>abc'</i>); <i>// This will throw an error...</i>
</pre></nowiki>

Additional options are available to relax these limitations, such as:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>var</b> interp1 = <b>new Interp</b>({isSafe:true, safeWriteDirs:['/tmp'], , safeReadDirs:['/tmp']});
</pre></nowiki>

From the command-line, safe execution of scripts can be invoked via <b>-S</b>:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>jsish -S</b> tests/while.js a b c
<b>jsish -S</b> tests/file.js a b c;  <i>// kicks a file access error.</i>
<b>jsish -S</b>         <i>// With no arguments runs the safe interp in interactive mode</i>
</pre></nowiki>

The implemenation is here: [../lib/Safe.jsi].
 
<hr>

<h3 id=threads>Thread-Interps</h3>

A sub-interp can be created in a threaded:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>var</b> interp1 = <b>new Interp</b>({subthread:true, scriptFile:<i>'mythrd.js'</i>});
interp1.<b>eval</b>(<i>"doWork();"</i>, true);
</pre></nowiki>

Note that if a <b>scriptFile</b>/<b>scriptStr</b> option is not given at create time, the thread blocks waiting for events.

Using a non-asynchronous <b>eval()</b> on a threaded interp, will block the caller until the thread calls
<b>sleep()</b> or <b>update()</b> with sleep time.  The same goes for <b>source()</b> and <b>uplevel()</b>.

Several Interp commands are not supported with threads, such as:

  *  <b>alias()</b>
  *  <b>value()</b>

<hr>

<h3 id=alias>Aliases</h3>

Interpreters can create alias commands with prepended arguments.

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>function</b> foo(a,b) {
  <b>puts</b>('A='+a+' B='+b);
}
foo(1,2);

<b>Interp.alias</b>(<i>'bar'</i>, foo, [3]);
bar(4);
</pre></nowiki>

Similarly an alias can be set in a sub-interp. 

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>var</b> i = new Interp</b>();

<b>function</b> myAlias(interp,name,arg1,arg2) {
   <b>puts</b>(<i>'myAlias: interp name arg1 '</i>+arg2);
}

<b>function</b> myAlias2(arg1,arg2) {
   <b>puts</b>(<i>'myAlias2: arg1 '</i>+arg2);
}

i.alias(<i>'foo'</i>, myAlias, [i, <i>'foo'</i>]);
i.alias(<i>'bar'</i>, myAlias2,null);
<b>puts</b>(i.alias()); puts(i.alias(<i>'foo'</i>));
puts(i.alias(<i>'foo'</i>, myAlias));
i.eval(<i>'bar(1,2)'</i>);
i.eval(<i>'var bb = {x:1};'</i>);
i.alias(<i>'bb.fig'</i>, myAlias, [i, <i>'bb.fig'</i>]);
i.eval(<i>'bb.fig(1)'</i>);
i.alias(<i>'bb.fig'</i>, myAlias, [i, <i>'bb.FIG'</i>]);
i.eval(<i>'bb.fig(1)'</i>);
<b>puts</b>(i.alias());
</pre></nowiki>

To delete an aliases just redefine as <b>null</b>.

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
i.alias(<i>'bb.fig'</i>, null, null);
puts(i.alias());
<b>try</b> { i.eval('bb.fig(1)'); } <b>catch</b>(e) { <b>puts</b>(<i>"CAUGHT ERROR: "</i>+e); }; puts(<i>"OK"</i>);
</pre></nowiki>


Note that aliases can not be create in a threaded sub-interpreter.

<hr>

<h3 id=options>Options</h3>

When we create an interpreter, we can pass in an number of options.
The available options are described [./reference.wiki#new InterpOptions|here].

Note that options marked as <b>initOnly</b> may only be set at interpreter creation time.

We can also set or get [./usingjsi.wiki#options|options] for the current interpreter in the usual way:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>Interp.conf</b>(); <i>// Dump all options</i>
<b>Interp.conf</b>(<i>'strict'</i>); <i>// Get one option</i>
<b>Interp.conf</b>({strict:false, maxDepth:99}); <i>// Set one or more options.</i>
</pre></nowiki>


<hr>

<h3 id=events>Events</h3>

Events in javascript are traditionally created by the standard <b>setTimeout()</b>/<b>setInterval()</b> methods. 

In Jsi, various commands and extensions (eg. [./js-websocket.wiki|websockets]) implement asynchronous 
features that use events.

Events explicitly get processed by calls to <b>update()</b>.
For more details see [./js-events.wiki|Events].

<hr>

<h3 id=evalcall>Call</h3>

Due to overhead of parsing, <b>eval()</b>
is actually the least efficient way to run commands. 

The two other, faster alternatives are <b>call()</b> and <b>send()</b>.

<b>call()</b> will invoke a method that is already defined in an interp. 

This is much more efficient as there is no parsing involved,
and just like <b>eval()</b> it takes an async argument.

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>var</b> cmd = <i>"
    function recv2(s) { puts('recv2: '+s.toString()); return {x:8, y:9}; };
    thrd = Info.interp().thread;
    puts(thrd);
    puts('Child starting: '+(thrd?'true':'false'));
    while (thrd) {
        update(1000);
        puts('Child-loop');
    };
"</i>;

<b>var</b> cnt=0, i = <b>new Interp</b>({subthread:true, scriptStr:cmd});

<b>Sys.sleep</b>(1000);
<b>var</b> obj = {AA:1,BB:2};
<b>var</b> aobj = [obj];
<b>var</b> ret;
<b>while</b> (cnt<10) {
  <b>update</b>(100);
  <b>puts</b>(<i>"Main-loop"</i>);
  <b>if</b> (((cnt++)%3)==0)
      i.eval(<i>"puts('Hello from main!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!');"</i>);
  ret = i.<b>call</b>(<i>'recv2'</i>,aobj);
  <b>puts</b>(ret);
}
</pre></nowiki>

<hr>

<h3 id=evalsend>Send</h3>

<b>send()</b> is used to pass messages via the function named
in the <b>recvCallback</b> option of the interps. 

This asynchronous function, which simply receives an array of messages,
is actually the most efficient way to communicate between interps.

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
var cmd = <i>"
    function recv(s) { puts('recv: '+s.toString()); };
    thrd = Info.interp().thread;
    puts(thrd);
    puts('Child starting: '+(thrd?'true':'false'));
    while (thrd) {
        update(500);
        puts('Child-loop');
        Interp.send({abc:1});
    };
"</i>;

<b>function</b> myrecv(s) { <b>puts</b>(<i>'>>>>>>>>>>MYRECV: '</i>+s.toString()); };
<b>Interp.conf</b>({recvCallback:'myrecv'});

<b>var</b> cnt=0, i = new Interp</b>({subthread:true, scriptStr:cmd, recvCallback:'recv'});

<b>Sys.sleep</b>(1000);
<b>var</b> obj = {AA:1,BB:2};
<b>var</b> aobj = [obj];
<b>while</b> (cnt<10) {
  <b>update</b>(100);
  <b>puts</b>("Main-loop");
  i.<b>send</b>(obj);
} 
</pre></nowiki>

<hr>

<h3 id=interpdata>Interps and Data</h3>

To reduce coupling and increase integrity within interpreters, data objects are never shared. 

To accomplish this, all data is internally converted to and from [./js-json.wiki|JSON] at the Interp-Interp interface.

This all happens automatically, so normally users don't need to be worry about the details.

But there are potential performance issues with this JSON translation.

<hr>

<h3 id=envvars>Environment</h3>

The environment variable <b>JSI_INTERP_OPTS</b> can be used for running scripts
with certain Interp options set:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>JSI_INTERP_OPTS</b>="{memDebug:1, maxOpCnt:1000000}" jsish myscript.js
</pre></nowiki>

This is important as it allows options to be set before an interpreter starts.

For example, in the case of <b>memDebug</b>, it is vital that no Value memory be allocated before
hand, otherwise detection of memory leaks will not be accurate.

Thus this is the only way this particular option can be set.

<hr>

<h3 id=compat>Backward Compatibility</h3>

The <b>compat</b> option is provided to support backward compatibility with code written
which uses options available in future releases of Jsi. Running such code with an older 
Jsi can cause script parse errors due to unknown options. We can prevent this by adding to the script:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>Interp.conf</b>({compat:<b>true</b>}); 
</pre></nowiki>
 
This provides an alternative to adding conditionals with <b>Info.version()</b>.

The application may still not work correctly, but at least parsing won't fail.

<hr>

<h2 id=refs>References</h2>

For more details see the [./reference.wiki#Interp|Interp Reference] and [./reference.wiki#Event|Event Reference].
