<title>Zvfs</title>
<div id=wikitoc>
<ul>
<li>[./index.wiki|Index]</li>
<li>[./reference.wiki|Reference]</li>
</ul>
<hr style="border-style:solid">
<ul>
<li>[#exec|Executing Zips]</li>
<li>[#zeroinstall|Zero-Install]</li>
<li>[#writing|Writing]</li>
<li>[#reading|Reading]</li>
</ul>
</div>

[./reference.wiki#zvfs]

Zvfs stands for Zip Virtual File System, which is used by Jsi to read and write zip files.

There are two important uses of Zvfs:

  *  Running scripts directly from <b>.zip</b> files.
  *  Running scripts zipped into the <b>jsish</b> binary (zero-install).


In both cases the Zip archive can contain all files (scripts, web pages, images, etc)
required by an application, and thus
can deploy complete working standalone applications.

<hr>
<h3 id=exec>Executing Zips</h3>

Jsi can execute a zip archive that contains <b>main.jsi</b>  or  <b>lib/main.jsi</b>, eg:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
# jsish DebugUI.zip my.jsi arg1 arg2
</pre></nowiki>

Jsi mounts the .zip file on <b>/zvfs1</b>, then executes <i>main.jsi</i> (or <i>lib/main.jsi</i>) therein.

Any other resources contained in the archive are also available to Jsi.

<hr>
<h3 id=zeroinstall>Zero-Install</h3>

It is also possible to zip <b>"main.jsi</b> (and other files) directly onto the end of the jsish binary itself.
This lets jsish be used to deploy Zero-Install, standalone application.

The simplesst way to create a Zero-Install application is to copy your scripts into <b>lib/</b> then use:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
make jsize
</pre></nowiki>

The direct approach uses the script <b>"tools/mkjsize.js"</b>:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
cp jsish jsize
tools/mkjsize.js create jsize zipdir
</pre></nowiki>

See [./usingjsi.wiki#examples] for concrete working example applications.
<hr>

<hr>
<h3 id=writing>Writing</h3>

To create a zip archive simpy use:
<nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
  Zvfs.create('arch.zip', file.glob('*.js'))
</pre></nowiki>
This creates a zip file containing all the .js files in the current directory.
<hr>

<h3 id=reading>Reading</h3>
Jsi can mount .zip files as local filesystem:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
var dir = Zvfs.mount('arch.zip');
File.glob('*', dir);
</pre></nowiki>

Note: If a mount point is not given, it is generated in the pattern <i>/zvfsN</i>, where N=1,2,3,...
<hr>

