<title>Packages</title>

<div id=wikitoc>
<ul>
<li>[./index.wiki|Index]</li>
<li>[./reference.wiki|Reference]</li>
</ul>
<hr style="border-style:solid">
<ul>
<li>[#packages|Packages]</li>
<ul>
<li>[#provide|Provide]</li>
<li>[#require|Require]</li>
<li>[#libpaths|PkgDirs]</li>
</ul>
<li>[#load|Load]</li>
<li>[#source|Source]</li>
<li>[#autoload|Autoload]</li>
<ul>
<li>[#autojsi|AutoFiles]</li>
<li>[#modfunc|Object Functions]</li>
</ul>
</ul>
</div>

<h2 id=packages>Packages</h2>

A package is software (javascript or compiled extension) containing a [#provide|provide()].

Packages are loaded using [#require|require()].

Here is a javascript example:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<i>//File: simple.jsi</i>
function simple(n) { return n+1; }

<b>provide</b>(<i>'simple'</i>);
</nowiki></pre>

and this is loaded with:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>require</b>(<i>'simple'</i>);

simple(2);
</nowiki></pre>

Note, javascript packages are typically deployed as [./js-modules.wiki|modules].

<h3 id=provide>Provide</h3>

<b>function provide(name:string, version:number=1):void</b>

<b>provide</b> indicates that the current file supplies <b>name</b> for a <b>require</b>.

A package file is of the form <b>name.EXT</b> or <b>name/name.EXT</b>;
<b>name</b> may contain only the characters <b>_ 0-9 a-z A-Z</b>.

This file is either a Jsi script (<b>.jsi</b>) containing a <b>provide(name)</b> call,
or shared library (<b>.so</b>/<b>.dll</b>)
containing a <b>Jsi_PkgProvide()</b>.

<h3 id=require>Require</h3>

<b>function require(name:string=void, version:number=1):number|array|object</b>

Require is used to load/query packages:

  *  zero arguments: returns the list of all loaded package names. 
  *  one argument: loads package code (if necessary) and returns its version.
  *  two arguments: as above but checks the version and returns the version and loadFile in an object.
  
If a version argument is given, and it is greater than package version, a warning is generated.

Package files are searched for in the following paths:

  #  Any directory in the [#libpaths|pkgDirs] Interp option.
  #  The executable directory of jsish.
  #  The directory of the current script.

<h3 id=libpaths>PkgDirs</h3>

Packages are searched for are specified by <b>pkgDirs</b>, which can be set <b>pkgDirs</b> using:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
Interp.conf({<b>pkgDirs</b>:[<i>'/usr/local/lib', '/usr/share'</i>]});
</nowiki></pre>

When a package is not found in <b>pkgDirs</b>, the executable and main script directories are checked.

<b>Note:</b> sub-interps inherit <b>pkgDirs</b> from the parent.

<hr>
<h2 id=load>Load</h2>

<b>function load(shlib:string):void</b>

The <b>load</b> command is used to load shared library extension into memory.

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>load</b>(<i>'libsqlitejs.so'</i>);
</pre></nowiki>

On Windows, the extensions <b>.dll</b> is used instead of <b>.so</b>.

For more details see [./c-extensions.wiki|Extensions].

<hr>

<h2 id=source>Source</h2>

<b>function source(val:string|array, options:object=void):void</b>

<b>source</b> is used to include javascript files, eg.

    <pre class=verbatim>
<b>source</b>(<i>'scripts/foo.js'</i>);
</pre>

<b>source</b> will also accept an array of files, as in:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>source</b>([<i>'foo.js'</i>,<i>'bar.js'</i>]);
</nowiki></pre>


A second parameter may be used for setting the following options:

    <table border='1' class=cmdstbl>
<tr><th>Option</th> <th>Type</th> <th>Description</th> </tr>
<tr><td>debug</td><td>INT</td><td>Debug level.</td> </tr>
<tr><td>auto</td><td>BOOL</td><td>Setup for load of autoload.jsi files.</td></tr>
<tr><td>isMain</td><td>BOOL</td><td>Force isMain() to true.</td></tr>
</table>


Various source related options can be configured/examined in the usual way:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>Interp.conf</b>({<b>maxIncDepth</b>:10});
<b>var</b> cur = <b>Info.script</b>();
<b>var</b> dir = <b>Info.scriptDir</b>();
</nowiki></pre>

The above changes the recursive maximum depth of <b>source</b> from it's default of 100.
<hr>

<h2 id=autoload>Autoload</h2>

Because it is sometimes desirable to defer loading code until first invocation,
Jsi provides a mechanism 
using  member values in the object <b>Jsi_Auto</b> to evaluate.
For example, given the file <i>myfunc.js</i>:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<i>// File myfunc.js</i>
provide(<i>'myfunc'</i>);
<b>function</b> double(n) { return n*2; };
<b>function</b> half(n)   { return n/2; };
</pre></nowiki>

We can arrange for dynamic sourcing with:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>Jsi_Auto</b>.double =
<b>Jsi_Auto</b>.half   = <i>'require("myfunc");'</i>;

double(4); <i>// Load is triggered!</i>
half(4);
</pre></nowiki>

This also works for object commands:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>Jsi_Auto</b>.MySql = <i>"require('MySql')"</i>;

//...
<b>var</b> db = <b>new MySql</b>({user:<i>'root'</i>, database:<i>'jsitest'</i>});
</pre></nowiki>


<h3 id=autojsi>AutoFiles</h3>

<b>Jsi_Auto</b> can be dynamically setup.

When Jsi first tries to invoke an undefined function, it first
traverses a list of files given in the interp option <b>autoFiles</b>.

The default <b>jsish</b> value is:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
# <b>Interp.conf</b>(<i>'autoFiles'</i>);
[ <i>"/zvfs/lib/autoload.jsi"</i> ]
</pre></nowiki>
 
Which means it loads the file [../lib/autoload.jsi], usually from the self-mounted [b ./js-zvfs.wiki|Zip-FS] on <b>/zvfs</b>.

After this <b>Jsi_Auto</b> members are accessed to load the function.

Additionally, if an application is run from a [../usingjsi.wiki#zeroinstall|.zip file], it's <b>autoload.jsi</b>
file gets added to <b>autoFiles</b> automatically.

This 2-stage approach results in no overhead, until a function call fails.

<h3 id=modfunc>Object Functions</h3>

Autoloading non-constructor object functions can use the following approach
(the example ignores the fact that JSON is not actually loadable):

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>var JSON</b> = { 
   parse:     <b>function</b>() { <b>require</b>(<i>'JSON'</i>); <b>return</b> JSON.parse.apply(this,arguments); },
   stringify: <b>function</b>() { <b>require</b>(<i>'JSON'</i>); <b>return</b> JSON.stringify.apply(this,arguments); }
   //...
}
<b>JSON.parse</b>(str); <i>// Load is triggered!</i>
</pre></nowiki>

Although that works, it suffers from one problem: the first call will not type-check functions.

We could fix this shortcoming with:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>var JSON</b> = {
    check: <b>function</b>(str:string, strict:boolean=false):boolean { <b>require</b>(<i>'JSON'</i>); <b>return</b> JSON.check.apply(this,arguments); },
    //...
};
</pre></nowiki>

But correctly transcribing function signatures is more complicated.

Fortunately there is a helper function:

    <b>function Jsi_AutoMake(objName:string):string</b>

which can be used to generate the auto file:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
File.write( <b>Jsi_AutoMake</b>(<i>'JSON'</i>), <i>'autoload.jsi'</i>);
</pre></nowiki>

The file <b>autoload.jsi</b> now contains calls and load and type-check correctly:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>var JSON</b> = {
    check: <b>function</b>(str:string, strict:boolean=true):boolean { require(<i>'JSON'</i>); <b>return</b> JSON.check.apply(this,arguments); },
    parse: <b>function</b>(str:string, strict:boolean=true):any { require(<i>'JSON'</i>); <b>return</b> JSON.parse.apply(this,arguments); },
    stringify: <b>function</b>(obj:object, strict:boolean=true):string { require(<i>'JSON'</i>); <b>return</b> JSON.stringify.apply(this,arguments); },
};
</pre></nowiki>



