<title>Using jsish</title>

<div id=wikitoc>
<ul>
<li>[./index.wiki|Index]</li>
<li>[./reference.wiki|Reference]</li>
</ul>
<hr style="border-style:solid">
<ul>
<li>[#invoke|Invocation]</li>
<ul>
<li>[#interactive|Interactive]</li>
<li>[#scrfiles|Script]</li>
<li>[#inline|Inline]</li>
</ul>
<li>[#arguments|Switches]</li>
<ul>
</ul>
<li>[#options|Options]</li>
<li>[#introspec|Introspection]</li>
<li>[#examples|Example Applications]</li>
<li>[#shell|Shell]</li>
<li>[#auto|Autocompletion]</li>
<li>[#editors|Editors]</li>
<ul>
<li>[#geany|Geany]</li>
<li>[#vim|Vim]</li>
</ul>
</ul>
</div>

<h2 id=invoke>Invocation</h2>

The following describes a few of the ways to use <b>jsish</b>.

<h3 id=interactive>Interactive</h3>

Interactive mode is the easiest way to try out code snippets, eg:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim_out>
  ./jsish
# var a = [1,2,3];
# for (var i in a) { puts(a[i]); }
1
2
3
...
</pre></nowiki>


<h3 id=scrfiles>Script</h3>

The script file to be executed is the first argument:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
jsish prog.js arg1 arg2
</pre></nowiki>

Under unix, the first line of executable scripts can be <b>#!</b>:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
#!/usr/bin/env jsish
for (var i in console.args)
   puts(console.args[i]);
</pre></nowiki>

The above allows jsish to be found in the path.

<h3 id=inline>Inline</h3>
Javascript can also be evaluated from the command-line with <b>-e</b>, eg:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
jsish -e 'var i = 0; while (i++<10) puts(i);'
</pre></nowiki>

<hr>

<h2 id=arguments>Switches</h2>

To see the supported switches in jsish use <b>-h</b>

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>jsish</b> -h
</pre></nowiki>
    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim_out>
usage: jsi -h|--help|-v|--version|-d|--debug|-D|--debugui|-W|--websrv|-S|--safe|-Z|--zip|-H|--htmli|
    -J|-jsi|-C|--cssi|-i|--invoke CMD|-e|--eval SCRIPT|-t|--tracecall|-T|--typecheck OPT|-IOPT VAL|FILE arg arg ...
</pre></nowiki>

The available switches are:

    <table border='1' class=cmdstbl>
<tr><th>Options</th> <th>Description</th> </tr>
<tr><td>-h|--help</td> <td>Outputs jsish help, or module help</td><tr>
<tr><td>-v|--version</td> <td>Output jsish version information</td><tr>
<tr><td>-d|--debug</td> <td>Command-line [./debug.wiki|debugger] [./js-modules.wiki|module]</td><tr>
<tr><td>-D|--debugui</td> <td>Jsi web-based gui debugger</td><tr>
<tr><td>-W|--websrv</td> <td>Web server and start browser</td><tr>
<tr><td>-S|--safe</td> <td>Run a safe interpreter, script or interactive</td><tr>
<tr><td>-Z|--zip</td> <td>File zip utility</td><tr>
<tr><td>-H|--htmli</td> <td>Html preprocessor</td><tr>
<tr><td>-J|-jsi</td> <td>Javascript preprocessor</td><tr>
<tr><td>-c|--cdata FILE</td> <td>Process a [./js-cdata.wiki|Cdata] definition</td><tr>
<tr><td>-C|--cssi</td> <td>Css preprocessor</td><tr>
<tr><td>-i|--invoke CMD</td> <td>Invoke command Sys module stored in /zvfs</td><tr>
<tr><td>-e|--eval SCRIPT</td> <td>Evaluate a script string from command-line</td><tr>
<tr><td>-t|--tracecall</td> <td>[./profiler.wiki#tracing|Trace] function calls and returned values</td><tr>
<tr><td>-T|--typecheck OPT</td> <td>Set function [./functions.wiki|type-checking] level</td><tr>
<tr><td>-IOPT VAL</td> <td>Set an [./js-interp.wiki|interp] [reference.wiki#new InterpOptions|option]</td><tr>
</table>

Help for module commands can similarly be displayed, eg:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>jsish</b> -d -h
</pre></nowiki>
    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim_out>
/zvfs/lib/JsiUtil.jsi:121: error: throw: 
A command-line Debugger for Jsi scripts.

Options/defaults:
    -debug      false       // Debugging output
    -echoCmd    true        // Echo user cmds.
    -safe       false       // Debug program in a safe interp (untested)

ERROR
</pre></nowiki>

which is used as:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>jsish</b> -d -debug true tests/while.js
</pre></nowiki>

<hr>

<h2 id=options>Options</h2>

Options are parameters handled by builtin commands.
These get passed in an <i>object</i>:

    <pre class=verbatim>
var db = new Sqlite('/tmp/testsql.db',{maxStmts:1000, readonly:true});
</pre>

Usually there is a <b>conf()</b> method providing access to options after creation:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>Interp.conf</b>(); <i>// Dump all options</i>
<b>Interp.conf</b>(<i>'strict'</i>); <i>// Get one option</i>
<b>Interp.conf</b>({strict:false, maxDepth:99}); <i>// Set one or more options.</i>
</pre></nowiki>

Note some options may be <b>readOnly</b>. And an option that is <b>initOnly</b>
may only be set at object creation time.

Internally, option parsing is implemented via [./c-options.wiki|C-Options].

<hr>

<h2 id=introspec>Introspection</h2>

There are several levels of introspection built-in to Jsi.
One is displayed when calling an invalid method:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
# <b>Array.xxx()</b>
error: 'Array' sub-commands are: concat fill filter forEach indexOf join lastIndexOf map pop push reverse shift sizeOf slice some sort splice unshift.    (at or near "xxx")
</pre></nowiki>

Another, is querying with the
[./reference.wiki#Info|Info] command:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim_out>
# <b>Info.platform()</b>
{ crc:7, hasThreads:true, intSize:4, isBigEndian:false, numberSize:8, os:"linux", platform:"unix", pointerSize:8, timeSize:8, wideSize:8 }

# <b>Info.cmds()</b>
[  "Array", "Boolean", "File", "FileIO", "Function", "Interp", "Info", "JSON", "Math", "Number",
   "Object", "RegExp", "Signal", "Sqlite", "String", "Sys", "Websocket", "Zvfs", "assert", "clearInterval",
   "console", "decodeURI", "encodeURI", "exit", "source",
   "isFinite", "isNaN", "load", "parseFloat", "parseInt", "puts", "quote",
   "setInterval", "setTimeout", "format" ]

# <b>Info.cmds('Array.*')</b>
[ "concat", "fill", "filter", "forEach", "indexOf", "join", "lastIndexOf", "map", "pop", "push",
  "reverse", "shift", "sizeOf", "slice", "some", "sort", "splice", "unshift" ]

# <b>Info.named()</b>
[ "Socket", "Channel", "MySql", "WebSocket", "Sqlite", "Interp" ]

<b>var</b> ii = <b>new Interp</b>();
# <b>Info.named('Interp')</b>
[ "#Interp_1" ]
</pre></nowiki>

and so on.


<hr>
<h2 id=examples>Example Applications</h2>

Jsi is distributed with several demonstration web applications:

  *  [./app/debugui.wiki|DebugUI]: a Debugger user interface for Jsi scripts. 
  *  [./app/sqliteui.wiki|SqliteUI]: a web user interface to Sqlite. 
  *  [./app/ledgerjs.wiki|LedgerJS]: an accounting program.
  
These can all be run as [./js-zvfs.wiki#zeroinstall|standalone] applications.

<hr>
<h2 id=shell>Shell</h2>

You can use <b>jsish</b>
as an enhanced replacement for [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)|#!/usr/bin/env].
This lets you run scripts from the command line with default arguments:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>#!/usr/local/bin/jsish</b> -T Debug %s -Trace true myinput1.txt
puts(console.args.join(' '));
</pre></nowiki>

<i>(there must be a <b>%s</b> and at least one argument)</i>

From <b>geany</b> you can now run the script with F9, and step through
warnings and errors.

This also works for [./js-logging.wiki|logging] messages: [../js-demos/log/mytest2.jsi|mytest2]

<hr>
<h2 id=auto>Autocompletion</h2>

Autocompletion can be set-up on unix by adding to .bashrc:


    <pre class=verbatim>
complete -W '-h --help -v --version -d --debug -D --debugui -u -unittest -s --safe -Z --zip \
  -S --sqliteui -W --websrv -H --htmli -J --jsi -c --cdata -C --cssi -m --module -e --eval \
  -T --typecheck -t --tracecall' -f '*.jsi'  'jsish'
</pre>

or running:

    <pre class=verbatim>
<b>make setup</b>.
</pre>

Next time you login you can use autocompletion with <i>TAB</i>.

This can make running
<b>jsish</b> from the command-line a little nicer.

<hr>
<h2 id=editors>Editors</h2>

<h3 id=geany>Geany</h3>

[http://www.geany.org|Geany] is a convenient editor to use with Jsi.
To enable Jsi file completion with Geany:

  *  Copy <i>tools/geany/filetypes.javascript</i> to <i>~/.config/geany/filedefs/</i>.
  *  Open geany and navigate to Tools->Configuration Files->filetypes_extensions.conf, then:
  *  Add "*.jsi;*.jsc" to Javascript, "*.wiki;*.htmli;" to HTML and "*.cssi;" to CSS
  *  Keep the file <i>tools/protos.jsi</i> open in the editor so Geany knows how to complete Jsi functions.

Geany can also navigate
through Jsi's gcc style scripting errors:

  *  Start by editing a <b>.jsi</b> file.
  *  From the Geany <b>Build</b> menu, select <b>Set Build Commands</b>.
  *  Click on the first blank label in Javascript and enter <i>Jsish</i>.
  *  In the command section enter the pathspec to jsish, eg. <i>$HOME/bin/jsish %f</i>
  *  Click <b>Ok</b>
  
Now hit <b>F8</b> to run the script. Upon errors, you should be able to navigate to the
highlighted lines, and see warnings in the bottom pane.

Alternatively, you can just create a Makefile to run jsish.

Also, if using the [./js-logging.wiki|logging] feature in Jsi, you can also navigate through
debug messages when using [#shell|F9 or shell exec].

To run scripts that honor the [#shell|shebang], repeat the above but set the command section 
to <i>jsish -# %f</i>.  

<b>Caveat</b>: one limitation of Geany is
that a function with a return type will likely not show up in the symbols list.

<h3 id=vim>Vim</h3>
Here is how to setup/use vim with Jsi:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
:set filetype javascript
:set makeprg=jsish\ %
:copen
</pre></nowiki>

Then to run scripts just use:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
:make
</pre></nowiki>

And much of what was said about navigation in Geany also applies to Vim.

