<title>C-API: Extension</title>

Jsi can be extended in several ways.
<h4>Embedding C</h4>

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
make USERSRC=demo
</pre></nowiki>

<h4>Dynamic Extensions</h4>

If libjsi.so is being used on your system, you can load shared libraries into Jsi using the load() command. 
Or they can be statically compiled in. Basically, all that is required is defining a C function
 Jsi_InitXXXX to handle the initialization on load.
 
Following is a brief but complete shared library example for Linux.
Given the file user/demo.c:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
#include "jsi.h"

JSI_EXTENSION_INI

Jsi_CmdProcDecl(DemoCmd) {
    int i, n = Jsi_ValueGetLength(interp, args);
    printf("demo called with %d args\n", n);
    for (i=0; i<n; i++) {
        char *cp = Jsi_ValueArrayIndexToStr(interp, args, i);
        printf("Arg %d = '%s'\n", i, cp);
    }
    return JSI_OK;
}

int Jsi_Initdemo(Jsi_Interp *interp) {
    puts("LOADED DEMO");
#ifdef JSI_USE_STUBS
  if (Jsi_StubsInit(interp, JSI_STUBS_STRICT) != JSI_OK)
        return JSI_ERROR;
#endif
    Jsi_CommandCreate(interp, "demo", DemoCmd, NULL);
    return JSI_OK;
}
</pre></nowiki>

We compile and load it thus:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
cc -g -Wall -DJSI_USE_STUBS -I. -shared -fpic user/demo.c -o user/demo.so
./jsish
load('user/demo.so');
</pre></nowiki>

<h4>Static API Access</h4>

Usually an extension would want to access the Jsi API to create commands, etc.
Here is the sample dyn.c extension included with the distribution:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
#include "jsi.h"

Jsi_CmdProcDecl(DynCmd) {
   puts("dyn called");
   return JSI_OK;
}

int Jsi_Initdyn(Jsi_Interp *interp) {
  puts("LOADED DYN");
  Jsi_CommandCreate(interp, "dyn", DynCmd, NULL);
  return JSI_OK;
}
</pre></nowiki>
To build this into the application, just type "make dyn".

<h4>Dynamic API Access</h4>

To load the above dynamically requires using, a shared library version of Jsi (jsish),
and the -ljsi option be added to the link line. Essentially, this requires installing
the shared version of Jsi onto your system.
Builtins

JSI comes with the following builtin extensions.

  #  <b>Sqlite</b>  A small database engine
  #  <b>WebSockets</b>  Direct communication with web browsers
  #  <b>Zvfs</b>    A Zip virtual file system

Although JSI can be compiled without these extensions, they generally come already compiled-in so
that web application development is ready to go

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
$ time ./jsish tests/prime.js 
Have native helper: false
1999 2999 4999 8999

real    0m0.384s
user    0m0.376s
sys 0m0.004s

$ make prime.so
cc -g -Wall -I. -shared -fpic user/prime.c -o prime.so
$ time ./jsish tests/prime.js 
Have native helper: true
1999 2999 4999 8999

real    0m0.169s
user    0m0.164s
sys 0m0.004s
</pre></nowiki>

<h2>Command Specs</h2>
Search for Jsi_CmdSpec in [../jsi.h#Jsi_CmdSpec|jsi.h] for details.

Commands are typically defined en-mass, eg.

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
static <b>Jsi_CmdSpec</b> dateCmds[] = {
    { "now",    DateNowCmd,     NULL,   0,  1, "?flags?",  .help="Return current time in ms since unix epoch (1970)" },
    { "format", DateFormatCmd,  NULL,  1,  3, "num,?format,flags?",  .help="Format time" },
    { "parse",  DateParseCmd,   NULL,   1,  2, "string,?flags?",  .help="Parse time string and return time in ms since 1970" },
    { NULL,     NULL,  }
};

<b>Jsi_SetupCmdSpecs</b>(interp, "Date",   dateCmds,  NULL, <b>JSI_CMDSPEC_NOTOBJ</b>);
</pre></nowiki>
