<title>C-API: JSON</title>

<h2 id=descr>Description</h2>

The JSON C API is provided by just two extern functions, whose use should be fairly intuitive.

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
enum { JSI_JSON_STRICT=1, JSI_JSON_STRKEYS=2 }; /* flags */

extern int Jsi_JSONParse(Jsi_Interp *interp, const char *js, Jsi_Value *ret, int flags);
extern int Jsi_JSONParseFmt(Jsi_Interp *interp, Jsi_Value *ret, const char *fmt, ...);
</pre></nowiki>

The parser itself is highly efficient. It uses a single
array of tokens for output so that for small JSON strings
no memory is allocated during the parse.
When memory does get allocated, it is only to increase the size of the token array.


<h2 id=simplec>Simplifying C with JSON</h2>

JSON can be enlisted to reduce C-code complexity, particularly when writing commands 
that return objects and/or arrays.
While the wisdom of using JSON this way may seem counter-intuitive,
the JSON parser handles this quite efficiently.

For example, suppose we want to create an object with a couple of values:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
Jsi_Obj *nobj = Jsi_ObjectNew(interp);
Jsi_ValueMakeObject(interp, ret, nobj);
Jsi_ObjInsertFromValue( interp, nobj, Jsi_ValueNewStringKey(interp, "file"), 
    Jsi_ValueNewStringKey(interp, file));
Jsi_ObjInsertFromValue( interp, nobj, Jsi_ValueNewStringKey(interp, "line"),
   Jsi_ValueNewNumber(interp, line));
</pre></nowiki>

Using a JSON string parse, this can be simplified to:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
sprintf(buf, "{file:\"%s\", line:%d}", file, line);
return Jsi_JSONParse(interp, buf, ret, 0);
</pre></nowiki>

The more deeply nested the structure, the greater the code simplification, eg:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
Jsi_JSONParseFmt(interp, ret, buf, "{ a: [ {x:%d, y:%d}, {x:%d, y:[%d,%d,%d]}] }",a,b,c,d,e,f);
</pre></nowiki>

Note: [./js-json.wiki#scan|permissive] mode is the default.  So there is
no need to quote property names which in C rapidly becomes tedious:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
"{\"os\":\"%s\", \"platform\":\"%s\", \"hasThreads\":%s, \"pointerSize\":%d, "
</pre></nowiki>

Note: the above trick works only for cases where data does not contain
special JSON characters.

<h2 id=subinterps>Sub-Interps</h2>

Any data sent between sub-[./js-interp.wiki|interps] will first be converted to/from JSON.
This because all data objects are private to an interp.

