<title>Download</title>

<div id=wikitoc>

<ul>
<li>[#bin|Binaries]</li>
<li>[#archive|Source Tar-balls]</li>
<ul>
<li>[#source|Release Tar-balls]</li>
<li>[#zip|Fossil Tar-ball]</li>
</ul>
<li>[#fossil|Fossil-Clone]</li>
<li>[#amalg|Amalgamated Source]</li>
</ul>

</div>

There are several download options:

  *  Binaries.
  *  Source Archive.
  *  Fossil Clone.
  *  Amalgamated Source.

However, only <i>Fossil Clone</i> gives you painless updates.

<hr>

<h2 id=bin>Binaries</h2>

You can download a binary for Linux or Windows from [http://sourceforge.net/projects/jsish/files/].

This is the fastest way to give <b>jsish</b> a test drive without having to build anything, but also
the least flexible.

<b>caveat</b>: Binaries have no readline support.
But on Linux you can run with: <b>rlwrap jsish</b> to get command-line editing.


<hr>

<h2 id=source>Source Tar-balls</h2>

There are 2 ways to get the full source: Release-tarballs and Fossil-tarball.

<h3 id=archive>Release Tar-balls</h3>

Source archives for specific release may be download from [http://sourceforge.net/projects/jsish/files/].

Jsi source is actually managed via fossil (below).


<h3 id=zip>Fossil Tar-ball</h3>

Another alternative is go to 
[http://jsish.sourceforge.net/] and login as anonymous.

Click on <i>Files</i>,
then click on the <i>xxxxxxxxxx</i> part in:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
Files of check-in [xxxxxxxxxx] in the top-level directory
</pre></nowiki>

This will let you download a zip or tar-ball archive.

<hr>
<h2 id=fossil>Fossil-Clone</h2>

The Jsi source and documentation is maintained within a [http://www.fossil-scm.org|fossil] repository.

Using the "fossil" command, pull down Jsi with:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
fossil clone http://jsish.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/jsi jsi.fossil
mkdir jsi
cd jsi
fossil open ../jsi.fossil
cd jsi
</pre></nowiki>

Then follow the [./build.wiki|build directions].

<hr>

<h2 id=amalg>Amalgamated Source</h2>

The amalgamated source <b>jsi.c</b> can be downloaded from [http://sourceforge.net/projects/jsish/files/].

It is also possible to download it via Fossil:

  *  Browse to [http://jsish.sourceforge.net/].
  *  Click on <b>Files</b>.
  *  Click on the directory <b>jsi/</b>.
  *  Click on <b>jsi.c</b>.
  *  Click <b>Download</b> in the menu.
  *  Use the Browser <b>Save-Page</b> function.

For more details see [./c-amalgamation.wiki|Amalgamation].
