<title>Zvfs</title>
[./reference.wiki#zvfs]

Zvfs stands for Zip Virtual File System.  Jsi uses Zvfs to read and write zip archives.
<hr>
<h3>Writing</h3>

To create a zip archive simpy use:
<nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
  Zvfs.create('arch.zip', file.glob('*.js'))
</pre></nowiki>
This creates a zip file containing all the .js files in the current directory.
<hr>
<h3>Reading</h3>
Jsi can mount .zip files as local filesystem:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
var dir = Zvfs.mount('arch.zip');
File.glob('*', dir);
</pre></nowiki>

Note: If a mount point is not given, it is generated in the pattern <i>/zvfsN</i>, where N=1,2,3,...
<hr>
<h3>Executing</h3>

If a zip archive contains the file <b>"main.jsi"</b> at the toplevel,
Jsi can run it, eg:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
# jsish arch.zip
</pre></nowiki>

Jsi automatically mounts the .zip file at startup, and then executes <i>main.jsi</i> and
jsish exits upon completion.

If you need to avoid exiting you can make use of [./js-events.wiki|Events].
<hr>
<h3>Zero-Install</h3>

It is also possible to zip <b>"main.jsi</b> and other files  directly onto the end of the jsish binary itself.
This converts jsish into a Zero-Install application.

As above, <i>main.jsi</i> will be sourced automatically and jsish exits upon completion.

One way to create a Zero-Install application is to use:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
make jsize
</pre></nowiki>

However, this just uses the script <b>"tools/mkjsize.js"</b> and is equivalent to:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
cp jsish jsize
tools/mkjsize.js create jsize zipdir
</pre></nowiki>

Click [./zeroinstall.wiki|here] to learn more about Zero-Install.
