<title>HTMLPP</title>

<b>htmlpp</b> is a server-side web preprocessor that uses escapes <b>&lt;?</b> and <b>?&gt;</b> to delimit
inline code (ie. like PHP).

Unlike PHP, <b>htmlpp</b> simply uses [../reference.wiki|Javascript].

To this, 2 commands are added:

  *  <b>include(file,...)</b>:  inserts the contents of a file inline,
  *  <b>echo(str)</b>: outputs a string inline.

Here is a simple example document <b>"main.ihtml"</b>:

<nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
    <?
        echo("&lt;h1>Main Page&lt;/h1>\n");
        var files = ['head.html', 'body.html'];
        for (var i in files)
            include(files[i]);
    ?>
    </html>
</pre></nowiki>

Evaluation is applied recursively to any included files.

<b>htmlpp</b> can be invoked directly by calling the [../js-autoload.wiki|autoload]
function <b>jsi_htmlpp(files,opts)</b>.
However,
<b>htmlpp</b> is generally invoked indirect (eg. as in [./websrv.wiki|websrv])
by association of the file extension <b>.ihtml</b> and the parser
within [../js-websocket.wiki|libwebsockets]. eg.

<nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
    this.ws = new Websocket(this.wsopts);
    this.ws.handler('.ihtml', 'jsi_htmlpp');
</pre></nowiki>

Evaluation is applied recursively to included files, even 
when <b>include</b>'ed files do not end with <b>.ihtml</b>.

<b>htmlpp</b> is used by the demo applications [./ledger.wiki|ledger]
and [./sqliteui.wiki|sqliteui].


<h4>Implementation Details</h4>

<b>htmlpp</b> itself is implemented in javascript.  It works by taking escaped sections of code,
evaluating it in a [../js-interp.wiki#subinterp|sub-interp], and inserting the resulting output inline. 

You can find the source for <b>htmlpp</b> in the <b>jsi/lib</b> subdirectory.
But for convenience, here is a link to the [fa5257c13bcbc8bd|htmlpp source] from Jsish 1.0.6.



